pages/ox_inventory/Guides/creatingItems.mdx, before:

---
title: Creating Items
---

import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra-theme-docs';

# Creating Items

## Defining item data

Before being able to see or use an item in game it **must** first be defined.

All of the items are defined in the [/data/items.lua](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/data/items.lua) file with key, value pairs.
Key is the name (not the label) of an item and the value is a table containing the
options for the item.

- Item options: `table`
  - label: `string`
  - weight?: `number`
  - stack?: `boolean`
    - If set to false will not allow the item to be stacked.
  - degrade?: `number`
    - Amount of time in minutes the item will degrade after.
  - decay?: `boolean`
    - If true the item will be deleted when durability reaches 0 (not instant for degraded items).
  - close?: `boolean`
    - If set to false does not close the inventory on item use.
  - description?: `string`
    - Item description that will be shown in the tooltip
  - consume?: `number`
    - Item count needed and removed use.
    - Default: 1
    - If set to a decimal will consume durability instead (0.2 = 20%).
  - allowArmed?: `boolean`
    - If set to true will allow use of item while armed with a weapon.
  - server?: `table`
    - export?: `string`
  - client?: `table`
    - export?: `string`
      - Export to be triggered after item use.
    - event?: `string`
      - Event to be triggered after item use.
    - status?: `table`
      - Adjust esx_status values after use.
    - anim?: `table`
      - Animation that will be played during the progress bar.
      - dict: `string`
      - clip: `string`
    - prop?: `table`
      - Attached prop that will be displayed during the progress bar.
      - model: `string` or `hash`
      - pos: `table` (x, y, z)
      - rot: `table` (x, y, z)
      - bone?: `number`
      - rotOrder?: `number`
    - disable?: `table`
      - Actions to be disabled during the progress bar.
      - move?: `boolean`
      - car?: `boolean`
      - combat?: `boolean`
      - mouse?: `boolean`
      - sprint?: `boolean`
    - usetime?: `number`
    - cancel?: `boolean`
      - If set to true the player canc cancel item use.
    - add?: `function`(total: `number`)
      - Function that triggers when receiving an item
      - Returns total item count as `total`
    - remove?: `function`(total: `number`)
      - Function that triggers when removing an item
      - Returns total item count as `total`
  - buttons?: `table`
    - label: `string`
    - action: `function`(slot: `number`)
      - Callback function when button is clicked in context menu, returns item slot.

### Examples

<Tabs items={["Burger", "Burger with description", "Burger with notification"]}>
  <Tab>
    ```lua
    ['burger'] = {
        label = 'Burger',
        weight = 220,
        stack = true,
        close = true,
        client = {
            status = { hunger = 200000 },
            anim = { dict = 'mp_player_inteat@burger', clip = 'mp_player_int_eat_burger_fp' },
            prop = {
                model = 'prop_cs_burger_01',
                pos = { x = 0.02, y = 0.02, y = -0.02},
                rot = { x = 0.0, y = 0.0, y = 0.0}
            },
            usetime = 2500,
        }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    A modified burger item which includes a description.

    ```lua
    ['burger'] = {
        label = 'Burger',
        description = 'Just what is the secret formula?'
        weight = 220,
        stack = true,
        close = true,
        client = {
            status = { hunger = 200000 },
            anim = { dict = 'mp_player_inteat@burger', clip = 'mp_player_int_eat_burger_fp' },
            prop = {
                model = 'prop_cs_burger_01',
                pos = { x = 0.02, y = 0.02, y = -0.02},
                rot = { x = 0.0, y = 0.0, y = 0.0}
            },
            usetime = 2500,
        }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    A modified burger item, which gives you notifications on add and remove arguments.

    ```lua
    ['burger'] = {
        label = 'Burger',
        weight = 220,
        stack = true,
        consume = 0,
        client = {
            add = function(total)
                if total > 0 then
                    lib.notify({description = 'Nice burger you got there!'})
                end
            end,

            remove = function(total)
                if total < 1 then
                    lib.notify({description = 'You lost all of your burgers!'})
                end
            end
        }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Making the item usable

- If you are using ESX, you can continue using `ESX.RegisterUsableItem`.
- If you are using QBox, you can continue using `exports.qbx_core:CreateUseableItem`.

Using the built-in system is more secure and provides much more functionality.

### Client callbacks

Item callbacks can be added by defining an export (recommended), or by adding it to [items/client.lua](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/modules/items/client.lua#L33).

When defining [item data](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/data/items.lua#L11), adding client.export will trigger an event on item use.
The correct formatting is `export = resourceName.exportName`.

```lua
exports('bandage', function(data, slot)
    local playerPed = PlayerPedId()
    local maxHealth = GetEntityMaxHealth(playerPed)
    local health = GetEntityHealth(playerPed)

    -- Does the ped need to heal? We can cancel the item from being used.
    if health < maxHealth then
        -- Triggers internal-code to correctly use items.
        -- This adds security, removes the item on use, adds progressbar support, and is necessary for server callbacks.
        exports.ox_inventory:useItem(data, function(data)
            -- The server has verified the item can be used.
            if data then
                SetEntityHealth(playerPed, math.min(maxHealth, math.floor(health + maxHealth / 16)))
                lib.notify({description = 'You feel better already'})
            end
        end)
    else
        -- Don't use the item
        lib.notify({type = 'error', description = 'You don\'t need a bandage right now'})
    end
end)
```

### Server callbacks

A callback function can be defined on the server to handle several events (usingItem, usedItem, buyItem).
This can either be an export (recommended), or added to the bottom of [items/server.lua](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/modules/items/server.lua).
When defining [item data](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/data/items.lua#L14), adding server.export will trigger an event for the actions above.
The correct formatting is `export = resourceName.exportName`.

```lua
exports('bandage', function(event, item, inventory, slot, data)
    -- Player is attempting to use the item.
    if event == 'usingItem' then
        local playerPed = GetPlayerPed(inventory.id)
        local maxHealth = GetEntityMaxHealth(playerPed)
        local health = GetEntityHealth(playerPed)

        -- Check if the player needs to be healed.
        if health >= maxHealth then
            TriggerClientEvent('ox_lib:notify', inventory.id, {type = 'error', description = 'You don\'t need a bandage right now'})

            -- Returning 'false' will prevent the item from being used
            return false
        end

        return
    end

    -- Player has finished using the item.
    if event == 'usedItem' then
        return TriggerClientEvent('ox_lib:notify', inventory.id, {description = 'You feel better already'})
    end

    -- Player is attempting to purchase the item.
    if event == 'buying' then
        return TriggerClientEvent('ox_lib:notify', inventory.id, {type = 'success', description = 'You bought a bandage'})
    end
end)
```

## Creating container items

Like with other items the item must first be registered.

When registered you can define the item as a container in `/modules/items/containers.lua`
The key for the container is the `name` you gave it when registering the item.
You can also define the number of slots, the maximum weight, blacklist and whitelist items.

- itemName:
  - slots: number
  - The number represents the amount of slots
  - maxWeight: number
  - The number represents the maximum weight within the container
  - blacklist:
    - Supports single and multiple items
    - `{ 'testburger', 'testburger2' }`
  - whitelist:
    - Supports single and multiple items
    - `{ 'testburger', 'testburger2' }`

### Example

```lua filename="Register Example"
['paperbag'] = {
    label = 'Paper Bag',
    weight = 1,
    stack = false,
    close = false,
    consume = 0
},
```

```lua filename="Properties Example"
setContainerProperties('paperbag', {
	slots = 5,
	maxWeight = 1000,
	blacklist = { 'testburger' }
})
```

Commit message:

feat(ox_inventory): add new setContainerProperties export (#20)

pages/ox_inventory/Guides/creatingItems.mdx, after:

---
title: Creating Items
---

import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra-theme-docs';

# Creating Items

## Defining item data

Before being able to see or use an item in game it **must** first be defined.

All of the items are defined in the [/data/items.lua](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/data/items.lua) file with key, value pairs.
Key is the name (not the label) of an item and the value is a table containing the
options for the item.

- Item options: `table`
  - label: `string`
  - weight?: `number`
  - stack?: `boolean`
    - If set to false will not allow the item to be stacked.
  - degrade?: `number`
    - Amount of time in minutes the item will degrade after.
  - decay?: `boolean`
    - If true the item will be deleted when durability reaches 0 (not instant for degraded items).
  - close?: `boolean`
    - If set to false does not close the inventory on item use.
  - description?: `string`
    - Item description that will be shown in the tooltip
  - consume?: `number`
    - Item count needed and removed use.
    - Default: 1
    - If set to a decimal will consume durability instead (0.2 = 20%).
  - allowArmed?: `boolean`
    - If set to true will allow use of item while armed with a weapon.
  - server?: `table`
    - export?: `string`
  - client?: `table`
    - export?: `string`
      - Export to be triggered after item use.
    - event?: `string`
      - Event to be triggered after item use.
    - status?: `table`
      - Adjust esx_status values after use.
    - anim?: `table`
      - Animation that will be played during the progress bar.
      - dict: `string`
      - clip: `string`
    - prop?: `table`
      - Attached prop that will be displayed during the progress bar.
      - model: `string` or `hash`
      - pos: `table` (x, y, z)
      - rot: `table` (x, y, z)
      - bone?: `number`
      - rotOrder?: `number`
    - disable?: `table`
      - Actions to be disabled during the progress bar.
      - move?: `boolean`
      - car?: `boolean`
      - combat?: `boolean`
      - mouse?: `boolean`
      - sprint?: `boolean`
    - usetime?: `number`
    - cancel?: `boolean`
      - If set to true the player canc cancel item use.
    - add?: `function`(total: `number`)
      - Function that triggers when receiving an item
      - Returns total item count as `total`
    - remove?: `function`(total: `number`)
      - Function that triggers when removing an item
      - Returns total item count as `total`
  - buttons?: `table`
    - label: `string`
    - action: `function`(slot: `number`)
      - Callback function when button is clicked in context menu, returns item slot.

### Examples

<Tabs items={["Burger", "Burger with description", "Burger with notification"]}>
  <Tab>
    ```lua
    ['burger'] = {
        label = 'Burger',
        weight = 220,
        stack = true,
        close = true,
        client = {
            status = { hunger = 200000 },
            anim = { dict = 'mp_player_inteat@burger', clip = 'mp_player_int_eat_burger_fp' },
            prop = {
                model = 'prop_cs_burger_01',
                pos = { x = 0.02, y = 0.02, y = -0.02},
                rot = { x = 0.0, y = 0.0, y = 0.0}
            },
            usetime = 2500,
        }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    A modified burger item which includes a description.

    ```lua
    ['burger'] = {
        label = 'Burger',
        description = 'Just what is the secret formula?'
        weight = 220,
        stack = true,
        close = true,
        client = {
            status = { hunger = 200000 },
            anim = { dict = 'mp_player_inteat@burger', clip = 'mp_player_int_eat_burger_fp' },
            prop = {
                model = 'prop_cs_burger_01',
                pos = { x = 0.02, y = 0.02, y = -0.02},
                rot = { x = 0.0, y = 0.0, y = 0.0}
            },
            usetime = 2500,
        }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    A modified burger item, which gives you notifications on add and remove arguments.

    ```lua
    ['burger'] = {
        label = 'Burger',
        weight = 220,
        stack = true,
        consume = 0,
        client = {
            add = function(total)
                if total > 0 then
                    lib.notify({description = 'Nice burger you got there!'})
                end
            end,

            remove = function(total)
                if total < 1 then
                    lib.notify({description = 'You lost all of your burgers!'})
                end
            end
        }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Making the item usable

- If you are using ESX, you can continue using `ESX.RegisterUsableItem`.
- If you are using QBox, you can continue using `exports.qbx_core:CreateUseableItem`.

Using the built-in system is more secure and provides much more functionality.

### Client callbacks

Item callbacks can be added by defining an export (recommended), or by adding it to [items/client.lua](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/modules/items/client.lua#L33).

When defining [item data](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/data/items.lua#L11), adding client.export will trigger an event on item use.
The correct formatting is `export = resourceName.exportName`.

```lua
exports('bandage', function(data, slot)
    local playerPed = PlayerPedId()
    local maxHealth = GetEntityMaxHealth(playerPed)
    local health = GetEntityHealth(playerPed)

    -- Does the ped need to heal? We can cancel the item from being used.
    if health < maxHealth then
        -- Triggers internal-code to correctly use items.
        -- This adds security, removes the item on use, adds progressbar support, and is necessary for server callbacks.
        exports.ox_inventory:useItem(data, function(data)
            -- The server has verified the item can be used.
            if data then
                SetEntityHealth(playerPed, math.min(maxHealth, math.floor(health + maxHealth / 16)))
                lib.notify({description = 'You feel better already'})
            end
        end)
    else
        -- Don't use the item
        lib.notify({type = 'error', description = 'You don\'t need a bandage right now'})
    end
end)
```

### Server callbacks

A callback function can be defined on the server to handle several events (usingItem, usedItem, buyItem).
This can either be an export (recommended), or added to the bottom of [items/server.lua](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/modules/items/server.lua).
When defining [item data](https://github.com/communityox/ox_inventory/blob/main/data/items.lua#L14), adding server.export will trigger an event for the actions above.
The correct formatting is `export = resourceName.exportName`.

```lua
exports('bandage', function(event, item, inventory, slot, data)
    -- Player is attempting to use the item.
    if event == 'usingItem' then
        local playerPed = GetPlayerPed(inventory.id)
        local maxHealth = GetEntityMaxHealth(playerPed)
        local health = GetEntityHealth(playerPed)

        -- Check if the player needs to be healed.
        if health >= maxHealth then
            TriggerClientEvent('ox_lib:notify', inventory.id, {type = 'error', description = 'You don\'t need a bandage right now'})

            -- Returning 'false' will prevent the item from being used
            return false
        end

        return
    end

    -- Player has finished using the item.
    if event == 'usedItem' then
        return TriggerClientEvent('ox_lib:notify', inventory.id, {description = 'You feel better already'})
    end

    -- Player is attempting to purchase the item.
    if event == 'buying' then
        return TriggerClientEvent('ox_lib:notify', inventory.id, {type = 'success', description = 'You bought a bandage'})
    end
end)
```

## Creating container items

Like with other items the item must first be registered.

When registered you can define the item as a container in `/modules/items/containers.lua` or using the [`setContainerProperties`](../Functions/Server#setcontainerproperties) server export.
The key for the container is the `name` you gave it when registering the item.  
You can also define the number of slots, the maximum weight, blacklist and whitelist items.

<br />

- itemName: `string`
- properties: `table`
  - slots: `number`
    - Number of slots available in the container.
  - maxWeight: `number`
    - Maximum weight the container can hold.
  - whitelist?: `table<string, true> | string[]`
    - A table of item names that are allowed in the container.
    - If not provided, all items are allowed except those blacklisted.
  - blacklist?: `table<string, true> | string[]`
    - A table of item names that are not allowed in the container.
    - If not provided, no items are blacklisted unless whitelist is provided.

### Example

```lua filename="Register Example"
['pizzabox'] = {
    label = 'Pizza Box',
    weight = 50,
    stack = false,
    close = false,
    consume = 0,
},
```

```lua filename="Properties Example"
setContainerProperties('pizzabox', {
    slots = 1,
    maxWeight = 1000,
    whitelist = { 'pizza' },
})
```
